Konqueror

Konqueror is a file manager and web browser for the KDE desktop. It provides the usual file manager functionality
including display of files and directories using an icon view or tree view, copying, moving and deleting by direct
drag and drop or by using copy, cut and paste, and file properties. Konqueror is a unified web browser, file manager,
document viewer, and image viewer.


Konqueror is highly configurable. There are multiple preconfigured profiles that allow you to select the mode of
operation that provides a starting place for using Konqueror in the manner that suits you best. You can also create
your own profiles. Konqueror is an amazingly versatile and powerful file management program that is also a very good
web browser and FTP client. Konqueror allows you to browse through your files and directories to locate, copy, move,
and delete files, as well as to open them using a pre-selected application, or an alternate application.

<Images for konqueror>

Konqueror Features:

    Webbrowsing using KHTML or KDEWebKit as rendering engines
    File management using most of Dolphin's features (including version-control, service menus and the basic UI)
    File management on ftp and sftp servers
    Full featured FTP-client (you can split views to display local and remote folders and previews in the same window)
    Embedded applications to preview files (e.g. Okular and Calligra for documents, Gwenview for pictures, KTextEditor for text-files)
    Different kinds of plugins: Service-menus, KParts (embedded applications), KIO (accessing files using special protocols like http or ftp) and KPart-plugins (like AdBlocker...)


Managing Files and Folders

Konqueror is a powerful file manager with one unique feature: It can preview most file types using a broad variety of
KDE frameworks kpart viewers. It be used to view .pdf files, images, text files and a lot of other file types.
A KDE file manager window consists of a menu bar, a navigation toolbar, a location field, a status bar,
and a sidebar that provided different views of user resources such as a tree view of file and directory icons for
your home directory. When you first display the file manager window, it displays the file and subdirectory icons
for your home directory.

When you first open Konqueror in file management mode, you can see two panes: on the right is the folder view;
on the left is the sidebar. The folder view contains icons for each item inside the current folder. These items can
be folders or files. Many file types can be “previewed” without opening a new application. Konqeruror supports split
windows, tabs and a lot more. It is totally fine as a file manager. It is not as efficient as GNU Midnight
Commander or plain cp/mv in a shell if you need to quickly move a lot of files around but it is very good if a GUI
file manager is what you are looking for.

You can open any item by clicking (just once – KDE does not use double-clicking in its default settings) on the
icon for the file. Folders will be opened in the same window; files will either be opened in the appropriate program,
or the file manager will ask you what program to use. For instance, if do not have a word-processor set up to open
Microsoft Word documents, the file manager will ask you what to do.

<Images for files and folders>

Navigation Panel

The navigation panel is a sidebar that lists different resources that a user can access with Konqueror. You can turn
the navigation panel on or off by selecting its entry in the Windows menu. The sidebar is configured with the
Navigation Panel Configuration tool, accessible as the first button on the Navigation panel's button bar.

<Images for navigation panel>

Web and FTP Access

The KDE file manager also doubles as a Web browser and an FTP client. It includes a box for entering either a
pathname for a local file or a URL for a Web page on the Internet or your intranet. A navigation toolbar can be
used to display previous Web pages or previous directories. The Home button will always return you to your home
directory. When accessing a Web page, the page is displayed as on any Web browser. With the navigation toolbar,
you can move back and forth through the list of previously displayed pages in that session. The KDE file manager
also operates as an FTP client.

<Images for FTP>





