PCManFM

PCMan is the default file management tool (manager) that comes with the LXDE desktop. Since the LXDE desktop
environment is designed to use as little resources as possible + it's well known for its speed, so as the PCMan.
PCMan file manager is intended for those who don’t need much functionality, whether using an old machine or a modern
PC, what you want is a lightweight, quick and responsive desktop. The goal of PCMan file manger is to fill the gap
between lightweight and full-featured file managers, in order to build not a powerful, but a good enough file manager
for your Linux desktop. PCManFM is the standard file manager in LXDE.

Nautilus (Gnome's tool) and Thunar (Xfce file manager) are both a lot similar in characteristics, but if you're a
bit new to LXDE, then think of PCMan as the simplest version of both Nautilus and Thunar. GUI and the look-n-feel as
Nautilus and Thunar. PCMan comes with the interface of Firefox, Windows Explorer, and nautilus, trying to
aggregate their useful parts. Furthermore, most hotkeys are compatible with Firefox, so users can get used to it
easily. Files can be easily dragged to other tabs in the same window.


<Images of pcmanfm>

PCManFM features:

    Full GVfs support with seamless access to remote file systems (able to handle sftp://, dav://, smb://, etc. when related back-ends of gvfs are installed.)
    Twin panel
    Customizable main window layout
    Desktop management - shows wallpaper and desktop icons
    Bookmarks - saved places. You can see them in the left panel of PCManFM. Visible from other Gtk+ applications.
    Multilingual (translated in several languages)
    Tabbed windows (similar to Firefox tabs)
    Volume management (mount/unmount/eject, requires gvfs)
    Drag & drop support
    Files can be dragged among tabs
    File association (Default application)
    File system advanced search
    Trash can support
    Provides icon view, compact view, detailed list view and thumbnail view.
    File templates support (both GNOME and KDE styles are supported) to simple creation of new files